---
title: Workshop 2020
layout: workshop
eleventyNavigation:
  parent: workshop
  key: Workshop-2020
  order: -1
---
<section class="section workshop-section workshop-section__thema">
<p>
<strong>EnergyVis:</strong> Virtual Workshop on Urban Visualization focusing on Visualizing Energy Resilient Cities in conjunction with ACM e-Energy 2020 conference. Featuring short talks, guest speakers and interactive group discussions exploring the goals and challenges in this area. <br /><br />26th June 2020 9:00-13:00 AEST (UTC+10) <a href="https://www.timeanddate.com/worldclock/fixedtime.html?msg=EnergyVis+Workshop&iso=20200626T09&p1=152&ah=4">More timezones</a><br /><br />
<a href="https://energy.acm.org/conferences/eenergy/2020/registration.php"><strong>Register here&nbsp;&raquo;</strong></a>
</p>

<h4>Thematic Background</h4>

Visualization as a tool for analysis, exploration and communication has become a driving force in the task of unravelling the complex urban fabrics that form our cities. Yet, there is a crucial need to bridge the gap between the flood of urban data and the capacity of decision makers to integrate that data into effective and informed decisions. This workshop series is looking to critically assess this notion and ask how data and data visualization can be used to serve and better understand or even organize urban processes, focusing on an explicitly “human-centric” perspective. This perspective should support and improve the understanding and the utilizations of data for all stakeholders - from governments and companies to citizens.
</section>

<section class="section workshop-section workshop-section__focus">
<h4>Workshop focus</h4>
The energy sector is seeing substantial technological and analytical enhancements enabling the delivery of smart systems via sensors, monitors and other digital technologies as well as improvements to predictions, forecasts and models throughout the industry. This emerging data is not only growing in volume, but in its complexity. This complexity increases as we draw connections with other urban infrastructures and incorporate populations. Visualization and visual analytics offer a vast array of opportunities for the energy domain and we are seeing a new era of ‘Energy Data Visualization’ emerging as a key topic of growing importance. With this workshop, we propose to bring together scientists, researchers and practitioners from the energy field to discuss the many challenges and goals in regard to Energy Data Visualization, with a specific focus on Energy Resilient Cities.<br /><br />
During the workshop, co-located with ACM e-Energy 2020 Conference (Melbourne, Australia, 23-26th June 2020), we would like to outline the specific field and therefore invite innovative ideas, design concepts, requirement analysis and work-in-progress in the following technical scope:

<ul class="workshop-section__focus-list">
<li class="workshop-section__focus-list-item">
<span class="workshop-section__focus-list-item--headline">Energy Visualization contexts</span>
<span class="workshop-section__focus-list-item--subtext">e.g. smart cities / smart homes / smart buildings, energy policy and governance, power grids, net zero initiatives, energy consumers and analysis</span>
</li>
<li class="workshop-section__focus-list-item">
<span class="workshop-section__focus-list-item--headline">Energy Visualization challenges</span>
<span class="workshop-section__focus-list-item--subtext">e.g. uncertainty visualization, spatio-temporal visualization, network visualization</span>
</li>
<li class="workshop-section__focus-list-item">
<span class="workshop-section__focus-list-item--headline">Use of Disruptive technologies</span>
<span class="workshop-section__focus-list-item--subtext">e.g. open source, open analytics and open workflows, machine learning, AI, VR/XR, tangible interfaces</span>
</li>
<li class="workshop-section__focus-list-item">
<span class="workshop-section__focus-list-item--headline">Energy Data Concepts</span>
<span class="workshop-section__focus-list-item--subtext">e.g. related to quantified self, citizen science, open data portals, open (data) standards, big data & real-time data challenges</span>
</li>
<li class="workshop-section__focus-list-item">
<span class="workshop-section__focus-list-item--headline">Human interaction & user-centric design</span>
<span class="workshop-section__focus-list-item--subtext">e.g. co-creation design methods, visualization for decision support and decision making, evaluation methods, stakeholder- & requirement analysis, visualizations for experts vs. general public</span>
</li>
</ul>

<h4>Workshop format</h4>
During the workshop, participants will be given a brief introductory presentation by the organizers to outline the workshop scope, followed by a selection of case study presentations from the accepted papers and guest speakers. The rest of the workshop will consist of interactive activities, making use of creative design thinking techniques, to encourage participants to collaboratively try to refine the definition of the energy data visualization theme, through identifying our collective goals and challenges.
</section>

<section class="section workshop-section workshop-section__timeline">

<h4>Program</h4>
<p><strong>9:00-10:00 - Workshop Introduction and short paper talks:</strong></p>
<ul>
<li>The Conception of an Urban Energy Dashboard using 3D City Models, Patrick Würstle, Thunyathep Santhanavanich, Rushikesh Padsala, Volker Coors - Hochschule für Technik Stuttgart.<br /><a href="https://doi.org/10.1145/3396851.3402650">Read the paper &raquo;</a></li>
<li>Illuminating energy: Smart Lights, Householders and Intuitive Energy Data Visualization, Rex Martin - Monash University.<br /><a href="https://doi.org/10.1145/3396851.3402649">Read the paper &raquo;</a></li>
<li>Want to Reduce Energy Consumption, Which Floor Should I Prefer? Priyanka Mary Mammen, Surabhi Mehrotra, Hareesh Kumar, Krithivasan Ramamritham - IITB Bombay.<br /><a href="https://doi.org/10.1145/3396851.3402648">Read the paper &raquo;</a></li>
<li>Toward Improving Building User Energy Awareness, Yidan Zhang, Arnaud Prouzeau, Hourieh Khalajzadeh, Sarah Goodwin - Monash University.<br /><a href="https://doi.org/10.1145/3396851.3402647">Read the paper &raquo;</a></li>
</ul>
<p><strong>10:00-11:00 - Guest speakers and Panel Q&A with</strong></p>
<ul>
<li>Kenny Gruchalla, Senior Scientist, National Renewable Energy Laboratory (NREL), Denver, USA</li>
<li>Jagoda Walny, Technical Lead, Visual Design Team, Canada Energy Regulator, Calgary, Canada</li>
<li>Lyn Bartram, Professor  in the School of Interactive Art and Technology and Director of  the Vancouver Institute of Visual Analytics, Simon Fraser University, BC, Canada</li>
<li>Yolande Strengers, Associate Professor, Emerging Technologies Research Lab, Faculty of Information Technology, Monash University, Melbourne, Australia</li>
</ul>
<p><strong>11:15-12:45 - Interactive Small and Large Group Discussions - collaboratively exploring the challenges and goals in the domain.</strong></p>
<p><strong>12:45 Workshop Wrap Up</strong></p>
</section>

<section class="section workshop-section workshop-section__abstracts">
<h4>Submission of Abstracts</h4>

We are accepting: Short papers, up to 4 pages in 9-point ACM double-column format (i.e., excluding references) and unlimited number of pages for appendices and references, double-blind.<br /><br />

The submission must be in PDF format and be formatted according to the official ACM Proceedings format. Papers that do not meet the size and formatting requirements may not be reviewed. Word and LaTeX templates are available on the ACM Publications Website. Submission implies the willingness of at least one author to register and present the paper at the workshop.<br /><br />

Please submit Papers to: <a href="https://eenergy20cityvis.hotcrp.com">https://eenergy20cityvis.hotcrp.com</a><br /><br />
<div>
If you have any questions, don't hesitate getting in touch with us: <a href="mailto:cityvis.workshop@gmail.com">cityvis.workshop@gmail.com</a>.
</div>
</section>

<section class="section workshop-section workshop-section__timeline">
<h4>Timeline</h4>
<ul class="workshop-section__timeline-list">
<li class="workshop-section__timeline-list--item">
<span class="workshop-section__timeline-list--date" style="width:280px;">30th April 2020</span>
<span class="workshop-section__timeline-list--event">Submission Deadline</span>
</li>
<li class="workshop-section__timeline-list--item">
<span class="workshop-section__timeline-list--date" style="width:280px;">21st May 2020</span>
<span class="workshop-section__timeline-list--event">Author Notification</span>
</li>
<li class="workshop-section__timeline-list--item">
<span class="workshop-section__timeline-list--date" style="width:280px;">28th May 2020</span>
<span class="workshop-section__timeline-list--event">Camera-Ready Deadline</span>
</li>
<li class="workshop-section__timeline-list--item">
<span class="workshop-section__timeline-list--date" style="width:280px;">26th June, 2020, 9AM AEST</span>
<span class="workshop-section__timeline-list--event">Workshop</span>
</li>
</ul>
</section>

<section class="section workshop-section">
<h4>Registration</h4>
<p>This virtual workshop is running in conjunction with <a href="https://energy.acm.org/conferences/eenergy/2020/">e-Energy 2020</a>. Please register your attendance via the e-Energy Conference <a href="https://energy.acm.org/conferences/eenergy/2020/registration.php">website</a> (a Workshop Only, or Conference+Workshop ticket). The half day workshop will be running in AEST time zone.</p>
</section>

<section class="section workshop-section workshop-section__timeline">
<h4 style="padding-top:50px;">Chairs</h4>
The EnergyVis Workshop is being led by members of Immersive Analytics Lab, one of the world leading research groups in immersive analytics and data visualization:<br /><br />
<ul class="committee-list">
<li class="committee-list__item">
Sarah Goodwin
<span class="committee-list__item--institution">
Monash University Melbourne
</span>
</li>
<li class="committee-list__item">
Arnaud Prouzeau
<span class="committee-list__item--institution">
Monash University Melbourne
</span>
</li>
<li class="committee-list__item">
Barrett Ens
<span class="committee-list__item--institution">
Monash University Melbourne
</span>
</li>
<li class="committee-list__item">
Kody Anh Nguyen
<span class="committee-list__item--institution">
Monash University
</span>
</li>
</ul><br /><br />

<h4 style="padding-top:50px;">Program Committee</h4>
<ul class="committee-list">
<li class="committee-list__item">
Almukhalfi, Hala
<span class="committee-list__item--institution">
Monash University
</span>
</li>
<li class="committee-list__item">
Bartram, Lyn
<span class="committee-list__item--institution">
Simon Fraser University, British Columbia, Canada
</span>
</li>
<li class="committee-list__item">
Bleisch, Susanne
<span class="committee-list__item--institution">
FHNW Northwestern Switzerland
</span>
</li>

<li class="committee-list__item">
Delir Haghighi, Pari
<span class="committee-list__item--institution">
Monash University
</span>
</li>

<li class="committee-list__item">
Fulda, Johanna
<span class="committee-list__item--institution">
Clir Renewables
</span>
</li>
<li class="committee-list__item">
Godwin, Alex
<span class="committee-list__item--institution">
American University, Washington D.C, United States
</span>
</li>
<li class="committee-list__item">
Gruchalla, Kenny
<span class="committee-list__item--institution">
National Renewable Energy Laboratory
</span>
</li>


<li class="committee-list__item">
Lobo, Maria Jesus
<span class="committee-list__item--institution">
Ecole Nationale de l'Aviation Civile
</span>
</li>
<li class="committee-list__item">
Meier, Sebastian
<span class="committee-list__item--institution">
Technologiestiftung Berlin, Germany
</span>
</li>
<li class="committee-list__item">
Saldarriaga, Juan Francisco
<span class="committee-list__item--institution">
Columbia University
</span>
</li>

<li class="committee-list__item">
Sharp, Darren
<span class="committee-list__item--institution">
Monash University
</span>
</li>
<li class="committee-list__item">
Strengers, Yolande
<span class="committee-list__item--institution">
Monash University
</span>
</li>
<li class="committee-list__item">
Turkay, Cagatay
<span class="committee-list__item--institution">
Warwick University
</span>
</li>
<li class="committee-list__item">
Willet, Wesley
<span class="committee-list__item--institution">
University of Calgary
</span>
</li>
</ul>
</section>

<section class="section workshop-section workshop-section__contact">
<h4>Contact</h4>
<div>
If you have any questions don't hesitate contacting us
<a href="mailto:cityvis.workshop@gmail.com?subject=CityVis%202020%20–%20Workshop">
cityvis.workshop@gmail.com
</a>
</div>
</section>
